# mask-usage-and-COVID


**To read the full report, open the file final_report.ipynb

**Note: At this time, data visualizations do not render with the Jupyter Notebook. All code to reproduce the visualizations can be found in the script covidscript.py
**Alternatively, to see the visualtizations, open the notebook in Google Colaboratory

Nearly two years after the first diagnosed case of COVID-19, the disease caused by infection of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, the disease has affected nearly every country in the world, causing it to be classified as a true pandemic disease. As each nation has attempted to combat its spread, the means by which they have done so have, inevitably, met some resistance. Particularly, in the United States, the enforcing of mask usage has become a highly polarized and politicized topic. Despite the many invitro studies which support the notion that certain masks are effective at reducing the transmission of airborne respiratory diseases, very little testing has been done regarding their effectiveness at reducing the spread of COVID-19. This paper seeks to explore whether mask usage has had a statistically significant impact on reducing the spread of the virus in the United States. This was done through OLS regression analysis of cross-sectional data pertaining to increases in the number of new confirmed cases over a five-week period. Thus far, self-reported mask usage statistics have not been shown to have had a statistically significant impact on the spread of the virus in the Unites States; however, these results have been deemed inconclusive due to persistent heteroskedasticity of the error terms present in the current models. Given the issues that remain in the current models, it cannot be concluded, without the additional analysis outlined in this report, whether mask usage has had a significant effect on the spread of COVID-19 in the United States.Resolution of these issues will provide valuable information as to whether governmental policies surrounding mask usage should be issued in the event of a future respiratory disease outbreak.
